README.md, before:

# Basic CD - Continuous Delivery

This repo contains enough code to demonstrate the building and deployment of a containerized application in a Kubernetes container - through a CI/CD pipeline.

The method used in this repository is very primitive and is purpose is just to show how CI/CD pipelines work - in Gitlab.


You can fork this repository, to experiment with it. You will need to setup the following repository secrets for this to work. 

* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_TOKEN (e.g `dckr_pat_ABCkjhgldiuhg7876t7hvo7rt`) (Type: Variable)
* KUBECONFIG_FILE (contains the contents of `~/.kube/config` or any kube config file) (Type: File)

Go to `GitHub -> Your repository -> Settings -> Secrets and Variables -> Actions -> Repository secrets`. Define your variables with correct types, and un-check the "Protect variable" option.

You also need the following variables in the CI environment, but they can be configured in the CI file - as they are not sensitive in nature.

* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL (e.g. `docker.io`, `gcr.io`, etc)
* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_USERNAME (e.g. `kamranazeem`)

If you want the resultant deployment to be accessible over internet, then you would need to ensure that:
* the Kubernetes cluster you are deploying to has an ingress controller, e.g. Traefik, nginx, etc. - usually behind some load balancer with a public IP (e.g. `1.2.3.4`)
* you have a DNS domain in your control (`demo.wbitt.com`), and can create A record to point to the load balancer of that cluster. e.g. `example1.demo.wbitt.com` points to the IP `1.2.3.4`

In addition to above, if you have SSL certificate setup correctly too - e.g. with "letsencrypt", then:
* you can use the HTTPS version of the deployment manifest file. 
* and, you can configure your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file to choose which file to use.


If you don't have ingresscontroller at all in your target Kubernetes cluster, simply disable/remove the ingress object definition from the `dep-svc-ing-http.template.yaml` file; and, then configure the `gitlab-ci.yaml` file to use the correct file.

## Successful run:

Verify from local computer:

```
$ kubectl config use-context my-k3s-cluster 
Switched to context "my-k3s-cluster".


$ kubectl -n default get deployment,svc,ingress

NAME                                      READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   1/1     1            1           2m6s

NAME                              TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
service/kubernetes                ClusterIP   10.32.0.1      <none>        443/TCP   9d
service/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   ClusterIP   10.32.63.154   <none>        80/TCP    2m6s

NAME                                                CLASS     HOSTS                     ADDRESS         PORTS   AGE
ingress.networking.k8s.io/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   traefik   basic-cd.demo.wbitt.com   192.168.0.241   80      2m7s

$ kubectl -n default get deployment basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com -o yaml | grep -w "image:"

        image: docker.io/kamranazeem/helloworld:db06a8a0
```

Access the application from home computer:

```
$ curl http://basic-cd.demo.wbitt.com
Hello world!
```

Commit message:

Fixed incorrect reference to Gitlab, and also added a note about not to use this in production.

README.md, after:

# Basic CD - Continuous Delivery

This repo contains enough code to demonstrate the building and deployment of a containerized application in a Kubernetes container - through a CI/CD pipeline.

The method used in this repository is very primitive and is purpose is just to show how a basic CI/CD pipelines work - in GitHub.


**Note:** This is a primitive example, and **should not be used in production** for security reasons. The biggest security problem is possible leakage of the secrets from the GitHub secrets/ENV variables. Anyone from the team working directly with this repository will have access to the secrets stored in the GH ENV variables. Therefore, the other approach of using a centralized **"puller"** (e.g. ArgoCD, Flux, etc) setup inside the kubernetes cluster should be used for CD purpose.


You can fork this repository, to experiment with it. You will need to setup the following repository secrets for this to work. 

* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_TOKEN (e.g `dckr_pat_ABCkjhgldiuhg7876t7hvo7rt`)
* KUBECONFIG_FILE (contains the base64 encoded contents of `~/.kube/config` or any kube config file)

Encode the `~/.kube/config` file like this, and copy the output:
```
$ cat ~/.kube/config | base64
```

Go to `GitHub -> Your repository -> Settings -> Secrets and Variables -> Actions -> Repository secrets`. Define your variables with correct types, and un-check the "Protect variable" option.

You also need the following variables in the CI environment, but they can be configured in the CI file - as they are not sensitive in nature.

* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL (e.g. `docker.io`, `gcr.io`, etc)
* CONTAINER_REGISTRY_USERNAME (e.g. `kamranazeem`)

If you want the resultant deployment to be accessible over internet, then you would need to ensure that:
* the Kubernetes cluster you are deploying to has an ingress controller, e.g. Traefik, nginx, etc. - usually behind some load balancer with a public IP (e.g. `1.2.3.4`)
* you have a DNS domain in your control (`demo.wbitt.com`), and can create A record to point to the load balancer of that cluster. e.g. `example1.demo.wbitt.com` points to the IP `1.2.3.4`

In addition to above, if you have SSL certificate setup correctly too - e.g. with "letsencrypt", then:
* you can use the HTTPS version of the deployment manifest file. 
* and, you can configure your GitHub Actions workflow file to choose which file to use (HTTP or HTTPS).


If you don't have an ingress controller at all in your target Kubernetes cluster, simply disable/remove the ingress object definition from the `dep-svc-ing-http.template.yaml` file; and, then configure GitHub Actions workflow file to use the correct template file.



## Successful run:

Once you commit and push your changes to this repository, the pipeline will kick off, and you will see it going through some steps and finishing successfully - hopefully! 

Once the pipeline run is finished successfully, verify what it (the pipeline) did from local computer:

```
$ kubectl config use-context my-k3s-cluster 
Switched to context "my-k3s-cluster".


$ kubectl -n default get deployment,svc,ingress

NAME                                      READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   1/1     1            1           2m6s

NAME                              TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
service/kubernetes                ClusterIP   10.32.0.1      <none>        443/TCP   9d
service/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   ClusterIP   10.32.63.154   <none>        80/TCP    2m6s

NAME                                                CLASS     HOSTS                     ADDRESS         PORTS   AGE
ingress.networking.k8s.io/basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com   traefik   basic-cd.demo.wbitt.com   192.168.0.241   80      2m7s
```


```
$ kubectl -n default get deployment basic-cd-demo-wbitt-com -o yaml | grep -w "image:"

        image: docker.io/kamranazeem/helloworld:db06a8a0
```

Access the application from home computer:

```
$ curl http://basic-cd.demo.wbitt.com
Hello world!
```
